---
date: 2021-06-14T13:00:00
title: 'Book Review: Staff Engineer by Will Larson'
description: >-
  My review of and thoughts about the book "Staff Engineer: Leadership beyond
  the management track" by Will Larson.
permalink: staff-engineer/
tags:
  - career
  - learning
  - book review
---

_[Staff Engineer: Leadership beyond the management track][se]_ by [Will
Larson][wl] is a needed deep dive into the world of software engineering
leadership outside choosing the management career path. As I read this book, I
am beginning my journey into Staff-level engineering, so it is particularly
timely for me. I wholeheartedly recommend this book to software engineers
looking to grow beyond the Senior Engineer level and into the world of
leadership without authority. It would also be an insightful read for any
software engineer or manager interested in learning more about this career path.

[se]: https://staffeng.com/book
[wl]: https://twitter.com/lethain

<img class="rounded-lg" alt="a picture of the Staff Engineer book" src="/images/staff-engineer-book.jpg" srcset="/images/staff-engineer-book@2x.jpg 2x" />

## What is Staff Engineering?

In the book, Will describes the Staff Engineer role as an answer to the
question:

> What if you want to advance your career without becoming an engineering
> manager?

A Staff Engineer is a software engineer that is operating at a scale beyond that
of a Senior Software Engineer. It is common for there to be many levels of Staff
engineers depending on the size of the company. They are named different things
depending on the level and where you are: "Tech Lead", "Staff Engineer",
"Principal Engineer" and "Distinguished Engineer" to name a few.

At most companies, "Senior Software Engineer" would be considered a "career"
level, intended to be the level that most engineers stay at. Moving from Senior
to Staff is not expected, and is analogous to moving from Senior into
management. A Staff Engineer is _not_ a "Senior Senior Software Engineer", but
instead shifts their role to one of leadership, facilitation, sponsorship,
exploration, [glue work][gw], and reach. As for coding, well...:

> Most write some \[code\], some write none, but none write as much as they used
> to earlier in their career. \[...\] Even if you're not writing much, you'll be
> reading a ton of your coworkers' code and doing a fair number of code reviews.

[gw]: https://noidea.dog/glue

Will interviewed many Staff+ engineers for the book and [four common
archetypes][arch] stood out: **Tech Lead**, **Architect**, **Solver**, and
**Right-Hand**. He writes in depth about these, and highlights that this
taxonomy is neither exclusive nor comprehensive. From reading through the
interviews in the book, it was clear to me that each Staff Engineer had their
own take on how best to play their role. The autonomy and self-direction that is
common throughout the interviews resulted in Staff Engineers frequently
customizing their role to play to their strengths while delivering value to
their organization.

[arch]: https://staffeng.com/guides/staff-archetypes

Becoming a Staff Engineer does not necessarily mean that engineering management
is out of the question. Many of the Staff+ engineers interviewed had either been
managers in the past, or occasionally revisit the decision. In her article _[The
Engineer/Manager Pendulum][emp]_, Charity Majors writes about the benefits of
moving between the roles, making the case that this makes you better at both. On
top of that, Staff Engineering requires many of the same skills that management
requires, so choosing this path over management is not the obvious choice that
it may initially seem.

[emp]: https://charity.wtf/2017/05/11/the-engineer-manager-pendulum/

## About the Book

_Staff Engineer_ is both a physical book and a freely available website.

The website, [staffeng.com][secom], was built as Will was building content for
the book and remains freely available. It contains most of the content in the
book, minus the introduction and conclusion. The site has some content that
didn't make it into the book too, such as a handful of the interviews. It is a
valuable resource for those that do not purchase the book, and a handy reference
to the content for those that do purchase it.

[secom]: https://staffeng.com

The physical book is broken into 3 main sections: How to operate as a Staff
Engineer, how to become a Staff Engineer, and interviews of Staff Engineers from
the industry. In the "Operating as Staff" section, Will provides a wealth of
advice on being effective and scaling yourself, as well as highlights many
pitfalls to avoid. In the sections "Getting the title where you are" and
"Deciding to switch companies", he outlines different strategies for obtaining a
Staff role depending on your circumstances. Lastly, in the "Stories" section,
Will provides 14 interviews of Staff Engineers working at companies like Stripe,
Slack, and Auth0.

## How this Book has Helped Me

This book has been a guiding light as I chart my own path as a Staff Engineer at
my organization. I have few peers to look to for guidance in this role, so
having available the collected experiences of Will and the many Staff Engineers
he interviewed has been a lifeline to me. While it would be easy to coast along,
jumping at the "next most important" task, I am instead crafting a well-rounded
framework of priorities within which to work. I want to bring my best to my
Principal Engineering role, and with this book's help, I feel more confident
than ever that I can chart my own path.

Another benefit of reading this book has been the normalization of many changes
I am going through. From coding less, to writing more, to feeling like I'm not
contributing like I used to, reading the stories of the many Staff Engineers in
this book helped me to realize that this is a natural transition I am going
through and nothing to get discouraged about. This emotional support cannot be
understated.

Finally, beyond the content in the book itself, Will and his interviewees
provide a wealth of resources to dig deeper into. From book recommendations, to
key blog posts, [this curated list of resources][res] will be a fountain of
learning that stretches long past my finishing this book.

[res]: https://staffeng.com/guides/learning-materials

## Conclusion

**My recommendation: Read this book!** üëç

This book is fantastic, and I recommend it. There's value here for software
engineers of any level, and managers too. Will's thoughtful, researched approach
to sharing guidance for this role is a massive step forward for the industry. My
hope is that, with a resource such as this available, we will see an increase in
opportunities available for these roles within the industry.

P.S: I also recommend the [StaffEng podcast][pod]. While not hosted by Will
directly, the hosts regularly interview Staff Engineers from across the industry
in a similar format to the interviews from the book.

[pod]: https://podcast.staffeng.com/
