---
date: 2021-08-22T13:00:00
title: Communication is a Superpower
description: >-
  Why communication should be a core skill software engineers focus on.
permalink: communication/
tags:
  - career
  - communication
---

Sometimes people joke that we become software engineers because we "like
computers more than people" - the implication within this being that we'd rather
avoid talking with people as much as possible. The truth, however, is that we
must instead develop these supposedly dreaded skills if we expect to succeed to
any meaningful degree as a software engineer. I guess the joke is on us üòÖ. As a
software engineer, having strong communication skills separates you from the
pack, and is a tailwind that empowers you to achieve your career goals.
Communication should be a core skill you focus on improving because it is a
superpower.

## The Consequences of Poor Communication

Being a software engineer in a business context is inherently a group endeavor.
You will inevitably be required to collaborate to achieve meaningful goals at
work, and having poor communication skills is like rust in the gears of that
collaboration. This effect also compounds when multiple people that need to
collaborate have poor communication skills. Things that would take days or even
minutes with a high-performing, communicative team would take weeks or months -
or worse, be stalled - for a team that has communication issues.

One of the cornerstones of modern agile software development is rapid iteration
and feedback, but this is all but made impossible when individuals involved in
the process are poor communicators. Frequently, high-performers will "route
around" poor communicators to get things done, cutting them out of the process.
If the poor communicator is a key contributor somehow, it holds the team back,
stunting team velocity and dragging everyone down.

Besides these disastrous team outcomes, poor communication can also derail an
individual's ability to even gain a position doing what they love to do. Without
being able to effectively communicate your value to others, you make it
difficult for the hiring manager to understand if you are a good fit for the
need they are trying to fill, and as such, will likely pass over you for another
candidate that makes their case more clearly.

All in all, you should think of your communication skills as one of the most
important skills you can develop over your career.

## The Hallmarks of Good Communication Skills

"So what do good communication skills look like?" you may be wondering. I don't
claim to be the best communicator - and my spouse would attest to this - but I
do see it as a core area that I work to improve upon every day. And while I may
not know every trick in the book, there are a few main points I adhere to when
collaborating with others.

### üí≠ Bias towards over-communicating

In general, it's better to make your point multiple times than to leave any
question. It can also be helpful to communicate your message in more than one
way - in writing, speaking, using diagrams, or even examples. For communication,
the DRY principle does not apply: repeat yourself frequently, saying things in
different ways, as often as you need to convey your message. The more important
the message, or the more fundamental, the more you should repeat it.

### üëÇüèº Listen more than you speak

A key component to being an effective communicator is understanding. To
understand the people you are speaking to, the problems you are solving, or the
context within you are working, listening to those around you and asking
clarifying questions are your best tools. Sometimes the answers to the questions
you want to ask have to be sought, so you'll have to invite others to the
conversation. Even in 1:1 conversations, leaning towards listening more than
speaking will make you a better communicator overall, as you will naturally
allow the conversation to flow both ways.

### ü™ü Prefer transparency

Everyone makes better decisions when they understand the full context within
which they are working. Being transparent means sharing anything and everything
that may be meaningful or relevant to a given problem domain, where possible. It
also means sharing your hunches, gut feelings, and intuition, as often these can
be as telling as the facts. Share the history of a problem, the history of the
people involved, previous attempts to solve this... anything that may be
helpful. Speak your mind.

### üôá Be respectful

As a corollary to the advice to "speak your mind", always try to frame what you
share in a way that is respectful and constructive. Look for ways to contribute
to the overall goals of the group, not drag it down, demotivate, or otherwise be
unhelpful or rude. Assume good intentions. Being respectful should always be at
the top of your mind when communicating with others, especially within a
business context.

### üß† Keep a beginner's mind

Even if you feel you are a good communicator now, always be looking for
disconnects or situations in which you feel you are not getting your point
across. Pay attention to the communication tactics employed by those you see as
influential or effective, and see if you can incorporate some of them into your
own communication style. Overall, stay humble and open.

## Good Communication in Software Engineering

It's one thing to talk about good communication skills, but understanding how to
apply those skills in your day-to-day work is another thing entirely. Software
engineers have lots of opportunities to communicate smoothly - or fail to do so.
Let's go through many of them and look at what good communication means in each
context.

### Code review

A company's [code review](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/)
process is one that every software engineer will be expected to participate in
from day one. A less obvious aspect of the code review process is that its
function is more social than for validation. By putting up code for review, the
committer is sharing a change along with the context within which the change is
being made, and is asking the reviewer to understand it and provide any
commentary that may help the committer do their best work. This is a
communicative process, both by the committer and the reviewer.

From the side of the code committer, they must do their best to allow the review
to stand on its own. By providing clear context in the review request
description, the committer shares everything the reviewer will need to know to
understand why this change is being made and the considerations that went into
designing the solution that is presented. They are also charged with writing
code that is clear, concise, and directly addressing the requirements - avoiding
changing unrelated code, unnecessary refactoring, or other distractions. A code
committer is communicating well to their reviewers when the reviewers feel well
equipped to play their role. When addressing any comments on the review, the
committer should aim to decouple their feelings from their code and address them
thinking about the bigger picture of the problem at hand.

A code reviewer is doing a good job communicating when they are directly
contributing to the goals of the code committer or the goals of the team as a
whole. This could be by providing useful critique on aspects of the design the
team cares about, such as code quality, performance, separation of concerns,
etc. It could also be providing valuable context the committer is missing, which
would allow them to build a better solution. If the code does not warrant any
comment, it can also be helpful to provide a supportive comment saying so! A
reviewer should avoid being confrontational, combative, accusatory, or
disrespectful.

### Receiving help from others

Asking for help can be difficult when you see others around you excelling. It's
important to remember that we all started somewhere, and you can rest assured
that we all received help from others along the way. When receiving help from
others, it's important that we do our best to make the process as easy as
possible for the person helping us, so they have a good experience and are happy
to help us in the future. If we make the process difficult by being
uncommunicative, confusing, combative, or defensive, it creates an unpleasant
memory for the person helping us, and they're less likely to want to assist us
later.

To smooth the process of receiving help from others, learn to state as clearly
as possible what you are trying to do and where you are stuck. Providing this
needed context is critical, as you may be going down a bad path and getting
stuck long after you should have course-corrected. A skilled mentor will know
how to lead someone towards the right solution and where they took a bad path,
but it is also on us to make their job easier.

Listening is critical to receiving help. It is frustrating to a mentor when they
are asked for help and provide it, only for the same mistakes to be made again
the next time around. We should do our best to internalize the lessons we learn
when receiving help - perhaps by taking notes, recording them and listening
later, or even just paying close attention and not letting ourselves get
distracted while we're being helped.

### Mentoring

Mentoring - the process of teaching and guiding others to learn skills you have
experience in - is an important and expected activity of senior software
engineers. In truth, anyone can mentor anyone in anything they have experience
with.

Teaching is a skill all its own, and should not be taken lightly. The same
skills you used to learn may not be what someone else needs, but the burden of
translating from your own knowledge to the learning style of your mentee is on
you. Varying your communication style is very helpful here - your skills in
React frontend development may have been the result of reading a few tutorials
and then jumping in the deep end, but your mentee may need a more curated
learning experience, such as classes, walk-throughs, or regular pairing
sessions. Asking questions, finding out how they learned other skills, and
paying attention to how they respond to you trying different teaching tactics
are all ways to tune in to how best to help them learn.

When answering one-off questions, your best bet of helping them is to ask them
to completely explain the problem and where they are stuck, and anything they
have tried so far. If it is clear to you what needs to be done, it can be
helpful to guide them to the answer themselves instead of giving it to them
directly, by asking leading questions. At times when the answer is not so clear,
pairing with them and being very vocal about what you are thinking and the
things you are considering will help them develop their own mental model for
solving the problem in a similar way.

Most importantly of all, never treat someone as if they should already know.
Comments like "you have _never_ viewed the Logstash logs? _Where have you
been!_" or "I would have thought you'd know this by now..." are toxic and only
serve to make the other person feel bad. Be supportive and kind, and always
encourage their questions.

### Pair programming

[Pair programming](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html)
is, as its name suggests, highly collaborative. Your experience of this practice
can fall anywhere between infuriating and illuminating, and the pair's
communication skills have a lot to do with that.

One of the best things a pair can do when first starting out is establish how
the pairing session will work. Will one person "drive" while the other
"navigates"? When will you swap who is at the keyboard? How long will you go
before a break? How long of a break should you take? Should the "navigator" use
a computer, or should both purely work from a single computer? If any of these
questions is ambiguous, it can make the experience confusing for one or both of
the pair. Having clear ground rules for the session smooths the experience
greatly, so take the time at the start to lay them out and form an agreement.

While pairing, it is critical that both of the pair learn to think out loud.
Neither can read the other's mind, and it is natural for software engineers to
retract into themselves when they are deep in thought. During a pairing session,
though, speaking what you are thinking as you are thinking it allows both
engineers to follow the train of thought and keeps the flow of the session
moving. Without this thinking out loud, a lot of starting and stopping happens,
and it can lead to one of the pair being left out, especially when the driver is
not collaborating.

After a pairing session and before a break, it can be beneficial to discuss
where you should pick back up when you get together again, and write that down
so you don't forget. This will allow you to jump directly back into the pairing
session without having to retrace your steps too much.

### Retrospectives

[Retrospectives](https://www.retrium.com/ultimate-guide-to-agile-retrospectives/retrospectives-101)
lay the foundation for continuous improvement on a
[Scrum](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum) software engineering team. In my
view, though, all software engineering teams should be running regular team
retrospectives, even if they aren't using Scrum. Retrospective meetings are only
effective, though, if the entire team is engaged in the process and
participating by sharing their thoughts, raising concerns, and celebrating wins.
By continuously engaging in this process of continuous improvement with an open,
communicative group, a team can quickly go from good to great in only a matter
of a few months.

Retrospectives vary in format, but a common one asks the questions: "What went
well this iteration? Where can we improve?" The entire team is responsible for
sharing anything they have seen in their day-to-day work - without this sharing,
the exercise falls flat and the meeting results in wasted time for everyone
involved. So the main thing software engineers should bring to retrospective
meetings is their whole self.

Taking note of any relevant topics between retrospective meetings is a great way
to bring your thoughts and experiences to bear the next time the group meets. It
can also be helpful to engage other engineers in the meeting and try to drive
towards concrete actions the team could take to address an issue that someone
raises. If you tend to be one of the more outspoken members of your team, don't
forget to save some air for others to speak their minds. Perhaps instead of
speaking directly, you could encourage a teammate to share their opinion on a
given topic (assuming you genuinely want to hear it).

Above all else, maintain the integrity of the meeting. Be supportive of everyone
speaking their mind as long as it is on-topic. Don't blame or shame - keep the
space supportive, encouraging, and safe. Don't be afraid to be lighthearted and
fun! And always remember that retrospectives are intended to be in service to
the development team. If it starts to suck, change it up.

### Incident response

Responding to an active incident - the site is down, there's ransomware on the
network, the last commit broke order submission - is some of the most stressful
communication we are a part of as a software engineer. Incidents are also
uncommon, so we don't get much practice. Nevertheless, having strong
communication skills in these moments can make the difference between a smooth
recovery and a frustrating nightmare.

Before an incident actually happens, it is helpful to read ahead of time about
incident response and best-practices to follow. My favorite write-up on this
topic is the
[PagerDuty Incident Response Guide](https://response.pagerduty.com). Having a
clear picture of how incident response should go will help you frame how you may
best participate and contribute.

When you are called in to be a part of an incident response, my best advice is
to stay on topic. If you are unsure what is going on, ask someone how you can
best get up to speed - typically there are documents being written to capture
the events as they happen. Once caught up, asking where help is needed,
announcing what you are doing, and announcing any findings you think may be
relevant are how to stay on topic. Keep any extra chatter out of the main
incident response call, and maybe even the main incident response chat room, if
it is not directly related to resolving the issue.

Besides staying on topic, try to stay calm. Despite the highly stressful
situation, remember that everyone is on the same team and is working towards the
same goal. If needed, you can gently nudge people to take off-topic
conversations off the call.

### Incident postmortem

[Incident Postmortems](https://response.pagerduty.com/after/post_mortem_process/)
are how we reflect on all aspects of an incident and make changes to improve as
an organization. This can be thought of as a "retrospective for incidents", and
should be treated similarly. In essence, the postmortem is intended to be for
the organization, helping it to improve and learn. A postmortem is not a
root-cause analysis, a chance to lay blame, or anything other than a feedback
mechanism for learning. All the rules around effective retrospectives apply
here, with an emphasis on creating a safe space for sharing, because there are
more likely to be sensitive topics in a postmortem than in your typical
retrospective.

## Strong Communication Sets You Apart

These 7 activities are only a sample of the times when our profession as
software engineers calls for plentiful, clear, empathetic, and respectful
communication. More can still be said about other activities such as sprint
planning, project planning, collecting product requirements, cross-team
collaboration, and more, but I think the point is made. Communication is a
critical skill for software engineers, and it should be in the core set of
skills that we work on throughout the course of our career. Strong communication
skills are a superpower that will set you apart and establish you as reliable, a
mentor, an asset, and a leader.

<sub><sup>Opengraph background photo by
<a href="https://unsplash.com/@wocintechchat?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Christina
@ wocintechchat.com</a> on
<a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/conference?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a><sub><sup>
