---
date: 2024-08-25T13:00:00
title: Modern Staff Engineering at a Startup
description: >
  How I applied DevOps, Staff Engineering, and Platform Engineering during my
  first year at a Series A startup.
permalink: startup/
tags:
  - devops
  - platform
  - staff+
  - talks
---

<img
alt="Title slide"
title="Title slide"
class="rounded-lg border border-blue-900"
src="../images/startup/Modern%20Staff%20Engineering%20at%20a%20Startup.png"
/>

DevOps - Platform Engineering - Staff Engineering. Do these concepts have a
place in a Startup? I argue yes, and hope you will agree by the end of this
talk. üôÇ

My name's Chad McElligott, and I'm a Senior Staff Engineer at the New York
City-based startup [Smartrr](https://smartrr.com/), where we provide
subscriptions and loyalty functionality as a service to
[Shopify](https://www.shopify.com/) brands. I work remotely from Huntsville,
Alabama, and I've been with Smartrr for a year now. We have 18 people across our
product and engineering group, which is more than half of the company as a
whole.

Smartrr is a "[Series A][series-a]" startup. This means we've proven to
investors we've found "[product-market fit][pmf]" to receive a round of funding,
and we're now working to grow our customer base, broaden our reach, and
stabilize our core offering. I joined Smartrr a few months after we closed our
Series A. I have a general Staff engineering role, working on our cloud
infrastructure but also helping to lead the product teams alongside our CTO and
Director of Product. This role is one of "leadership without authority" - I help
steer the direction of the engineering group through sound reasoning, leading by
example, and earning the trust of my fellow engineers. I consider these concepts
of DevOps, Staff Engineering, and Platform Engineering as tools to use to lead
and build that trust.

[series-a]: https://carta.com/learn/startups/fundraising/series-a/
[pmf]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product-market_fit

## DevOps - Platform Engineering - Staff Engineering. What do these things really mean?

Maybe, being at a DevOpsDays conference, you feel you have a pretty good
understanding of what DevOps means. But even among us, it's unlikely we'll
universally agree on a definition. To some, it's a job title. To others, it's a
way of working. Perhaps you're a software engineer who's experienced "DevOps as
No Ops," resulting in you having to handle all Ops-related concerns yourself.
Maybe you enjoy that, or maybe you feel it's moving us backward.

To me, DevOps is a mentality of collaboration, automation of toil, and an
embrace of modern tooling to sustain a fast flow of value to customers. It‚Äôs not
just leveraging the cloud, building infrastructure using code, or setting up
CI/CD pipelines. And it‚Äôs not just breaking down barriers to communication and
collaboration. DevOps is a collection of these things, a recognition of how far
we‚Äôve come as an industry and the lessons we‚Äôve learned, and taking advantage of
that to achieve better outcomes for our customers and for ourselves.

Platform Engineering is a newer concept, made popular by the book Team
Topologies by Manuel Pais and Matthew Skelton. I gave a talk about my experience
as a Platform Engineer at last year‚Äôs DevOps Days Birmingham, which is
[available on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2xG3RMLzpwE) if you
haven‚Äôt had a chance to hear it yet. I think of Platform Engineering as a
technique for reducing the cognitive load on developers. It aims to increase
product development velocity AND system stability by putting in place
foundational components that support developers‚Äô activities. Listening to
podcasts like the [Engineering Enablement](https://getdx.com/podcast/) podcast,
you can hear many stories about how large organizations are building platform
engineering teams to reap efficiencies and improve the developer experience.

Lastly, Staff Engineering isn‚Äôt a mindset or a technique, but a role a software
engineer fills within an organization, sometimes also called ‚ÄúStaff+‚Äù. A
progression past the ‚Äúcareer‚Äù senior software engineer role, Staff Engineering
may be best described as **servant leadership for software engineering**. Senior
software engineers are responsible for the outcomes of their work and the work
of their direct team. Staff+ work can grow that responsibility to the entire
organization, but it may lose some of the individual contributorship a senior
engineer may have grown accustomed to previously. Staff+ Engineers are often
partnered with managers, directors, or VPs to bring IC-style ‚Äúboots on the
ground‚Äù perspective, energy, and action to their agendas. There's a lot of
overlap between the ‚ÄúArchitect‚Äù role of past generations and Staff+ engineering,
and [Will Larson][will] even calls out ‚ÄúArchitect‚Äù as one of the four ‚ÄúStaff
archetypes‚Äù ‚Äì the others being ‚ÄúRight Hand‚Äù, ‚ÄúTech Lead‚Äù, and ‚ÄúFixer‚Äù ‚Äì in his
book _[Staff Engineer](https://staffeng.com/book/)_.

[will]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-larson-a44b543/

## So What's Different About a Startup, Anyway?

So what‚Äôs different about working at a venture-backed startup, anyway? Well, to
grow the company, the leaders hire up, often taking on more expenditures than
the company‚Äôs revenue, leaning on the capital gained from investors to provide a
so-called ‚Äúrunway‚Äù to facilitate rapid growth. As a result, the company must
move fast toward growth and profitability before that runway runs out.

This dynamic leads to two cultural qualities that a startup exhibits:

1. **there‚Äôs no time to waste**. While waste is never okay, wasted time is
   particularly detrimental for a Startup. The development team's activities
   have to be hyper-focused on the organization's strategic goals while there‚Äôs
   still enough runway to execute them. Everyone on the team needs to consider
   whether their activities are aligned, and, if they think they‚Äôre off course,
   to check in and reorient. Experiments often will fail, but this isn‚Äôt a waste
   as long as they‚Äôre structured for learning and that desired lesson is
   learned.

2. **we all wear many hats**. When an organization is small like ours, there‚Äôs a
   lot of work to be done and seemingly nowhere near enough people to do it. As
   a result, someone who identifies as a front-end developer may also be
   performing the activities of a product designer, technical writer, product
   manager, quality assurance, third-party integrator, and more. As new ideas
   are brought to the table of how to further improve the customer experience,
   those who brought these ideas may end up also being responsible for
   prototyping or bringing the ideas to life.

These cultural qualities inform what is needed from a product development group
and, in particular, a software engineering leader within that group. They can
also give us hints about how DevOps, Platform Engineering, and Staff Engineering
may need to be adapted to this environment.

## How Startup Culture Shapes Our Modern Engineering Concepts

So, let's revisit our 3 engineering concepts through the lens of a startup
environment and culture. What changes?

For DevOps, it‚Äôs important to keep in mind that processes are easy to change at
a startup because there are so few people who need to alter their behavior. When
looking to solve some problem, particularly when a tool is involved, it‚Äôs best
to alter your process to the tool for best results. Keeping a rigid process
would require you to customize tools and possibly even build additional pieces
of software, all of which are a drain on the time you could be spending creating
value elsewhere.

Speaking of tools, you should try to avoid as much custom tooling as possible.
This can take many forms, but may include using serverless infrastructure,
leveraging SaaS tools, or choosing an open-source library. Try to go with the
grain of technology where deviating doesn't provide a competitive advantage for
your company, as it‚Äôll save you a lot of time and energy. Martin Fowler has a
great article on his blog about this, titled [Utility vs Strategic
Dichotomy][uvs], if you‚Äôd like to learn more.

[uvs]: https://martinfowler.com/bliki/UtilityVsStrategicDichotomy.html

Lastly, when you are choosing ‚Äúutility‚Äù technology, you‚Äôll want to make sure it
is boring. Don‚Äôt make big bets on solutions that are unfamiliar to the team or
that have no community around them. If you encounter a problem, you want to be
able to find a solution to it online, not be forced to code one up from scratch.
Dan McKinley has a full talk dedicated to explaining this idea at
https://boringtechnology.club/.

So how does Platform Engineering change at a Startup? On Rebecca Murphey‚Äôs new
Engineering Unblocked podcast, [something she said][rmurphey] that I love is
that ‚ÄúA company‚Äôs developer experience is a product, whether anyone designed it
or not.‚Äù This is true even at Startup scale. You still need to monitor, deploy,
track errors, read logs, and flip feature flags. The question is - Is it a pain
to do these things?

[rmurphey]: https://pca.st/ynwqln8b?t=399,475

When thinking about Platform Engineering at an early-stage startup, it‚Äôll
certainly be a part-time hat you wear. While at one point, you may need an
integrated test environment separate from production, later you may find your
Platform-related concerns lower down the list of priorities. You‚Äôll find
yourself **putting on the Platform Engineering hat only as the need arises**.

You‚Äôre also not likely to have time for long-term platform-related projects.
Instead, think of how to implement some value-adding component of the broader
solution you have in mind. You can think big picture, and share that grander
vision with your team, but **you need to work in small batches**, and help
people understand how these smaller pieces connect to that broader vision.

Lastly, Platform Engineers at larger companies spend considerable effort
ensuring smooth transitions from legacy software to modern tools and techniques.
By contrast, doing Platform work at a startup mostly involves putting components
in place that did not exist at all before. **You‚Äôll be blazing a trail**,
unlocking new productivity and approaches that were previously not possible.
This is a great feeling, but it can also be tricky to know - of all the possible
things I _could_ be doing, what _should_ I do? When deciding whether to take on
a platform-related project, take care to ensure you are solving _the problems
your organization currently has_ or _those you see on the immediate horizon_.
Through boots-on-the-ground work, talking with your fellow engineers, paying
attention to retrospective feedback, and periodic assessment of your Software
Development Lifecycle metrics, you‚Äôll surface work that deserves attention.
Sometimes though, it‚Äôll be best to leave the platform work for another day, and
focus on needs elsewhere. Be flexible.

Now, the Staff Engineer role is already well suited for work within a startup.
The inherent deep technical expertise, the interest in having a broad impact,
and the willingness to go where needed to solve business problems all resonate
strongly in this environment.

There‚Äôs a common saying in large organizations that certain senior staff ‚Äúknow
where the bodies are buried,‚Äù suggesting that they understand where technical
debt lies and the surrounding context. It‚Äôs often the role of a staff engineer
to go and find those people and write down their knowledge so decisions can be
made on how to proceed. At a startup, by contrast, you can often look around
after joining and easily see all the various things that need attention. This is
an opportunity for a Staff Engineer to have a **tremendous impact through
execution alone** by reigning in this chaos and putting in place solutions that
will serve the organization for years to come.

Staff engineers also **won‚Äôt be able to stay in any one ‚Äúarchetype‚Äù** at a
startup. It's likely, due to the small size of the group, that you will be
expected to be hands-on in addition to your other typical staff plus activities.
You‚Äôll be called upon for architecture work, leading projects, performing
tactical tasks, and will be expected to come up with your own ideas of how to
improve things and implement them without being told. Fluidity and ownership are
key traits of a staff plus engineer at a Startup.

Finally, one perhaps less mentioned aspect of a Staff Plus engineer is their
work doing **mentorship and sponsorship** to help other engineers. This can be
especially important at a startup with junior talent, as they need the support,
guidance, and guardrails that a staff engineer can provide.

---

Modern Staff Engineering Applied - Stories From My 1st Year at Smartrr So now
that we've looked at what DevOps, Platform Engineering, and Staff Engineering
look like at a startup in the abstract, I'd like to share two stories with you
about projects I worked on during my first year at Smartrr and how I applied the
modern engineering practices we've discussed thus far.

My first story is from the beginning of my time at Smartrr. It's about the
improvements we made to our Quality Assurance process and how we no longer
impose a merge freeze while regression testing our releases.

Second, I'll share how we have added to, removed from, and altered our processes
as we strive to continuously improve how we organize our work.

So, let's dive in! How I Helped Remove the Merge Freeze For Better DevEx

When I joined Smartrr, one of my first tasks was to help finish a project to
provision a new integrated testing environment in Google Cloud.

At that time, the process for performing releases was to stop merging patches
into the main branch for 2-3 days while the QA team walked through their manual
regression testing process using Qase, a popular QA test management tool. During
this merge freeze, the developers would continue building new patches for the
main branch, but leave the merge requests open until the freeze was over. Any
bugs found during the regression testing process would be deemed either blocking
or non-blocking; any blocking bugs would be fixed immediately, and their patches
would be merged into the main branch prior to a release being deployed to
production. Once the release was deployed, the developers would merge their
patches into the main branch, and development would continue normally until it
was time for a new release. The team was operating using a 2-week scrum sprint,
and the regression testing process would start roughly 3 days before the sprint
ended.

While this process was working, it had its drawbacks. The fully manual
regression testing process was slow, and often had unpredictable results because
of a lack of unit tests in fundamental areas of the codebase. The development
team understood the importance of quality but was understandably frustrated by
the merge freeze, which often resulted in difficult-to-resolve merge conflicts.

The organization had recently renewed its focus on quality and stability,
leading them to reevaluate every aspect of the Software Development Lifecycle.
This resulted in a few new initiatives. Among these, they wanted to convert
their manual regression testing suite into an automated test suite that could be
run more often and more efficiently. The QA engineers building this wanted a
stable integrated test environment to run it against so that the application
wouldn't change while the suite was running. So, my first task at the company
was to help with this project by completing the build-out of a new integrated
testing environment that we called "Sandbox."

The application to be deployed to the new environment was a monolithic Node.js
web application, along with a collection of cron jobs, some Google Cloud Run
instances, a PostgreSQL database, a Redis instance, some Google Cloud PubSub
queues, and DNS. The application and its cron jobs were deployed to Google
Kubernetes Engine. The source code was hosted in Gitlab, and GitLab's Auto
DevOps was being used but was heavily customized. The .gitlab-ci.yml file was
considered "arcane knowledge," and most were afraid to touch it for fear of
breaking something.

Progress had already been made in building out the new environment. There was a
new GCP project and a new cluster, and much was working‚Äîeven Terraform was
already being used to build out the infrastructure. I took this work and applied
what I felt was best given the team, the circumstances, and the timeline:

First, I felt it was important that the infrastructure for the application be
colocated with the application itself, so the developers would not treat it as
"other." I moved the Terraform project into the application's monorepo, to bring
it more visibility and have it treated as a first-class citizen in the product
development group. While building the new environment with Terraform was a great
choice, I felt it didn't go far enough because the other environments also
needed it. I captured the existing staging and production environments in
Terraform and built the new environment's infrastructure by applying a different
set of variables to the same definitions. This ensured parity between the
environments and helped us "heal" the places where they had diverged. Auto
DevOps was obfuscating the CI/CD process, so we decided to stop using it. I
cloned the existing monorepo project to a new project in GitLab that had Auto
DevOps disabled, then built out a new .gitlab-ci.yml file that retained the
Gitlab specifics of the build, test, and deploy process, but split the majority
of the commands off into a Makefile so they could be run manually. Once I had
this working, I merged it back into the main monorepo and disabled Auto DevOps.
Lastly, we decided to further decouple from Gitlab by moving our secrets. While
rebuilding the deployment scripts, I moved all the application's secrets to
Google Cloud Secrets Manager and automated the process of creating a Kubernetes
Secret from these values on each deployment.

And some things we decided not to do: Running the application in Kubernetes felt
like overkill since we had a monolith. We decided to leave it this way, though,
as it would have slowed our progress to migrate it elsewhere, and running it
there was not actively causing harm. We didn't set up any automated Terraform
workflows since our infrastructure is relatively simple and does not change
often. It is still a manual process and is considered a "nice to have" to
automate it. I have it on my list to investigate Google Infrastructure Manager
for this.

After much iteration and a careful rollout of the infrastructure from staging,
to sandbox, and finally to production, we called the project a success, and the
QA team began using the new environment in earnest.

Now, remember how I told you I helped remove the merge freeze? Well, once the
new environment was ready, I drafted a proposal for what I thought was our path
to eliminating manual regression testing entirely from our release process. The
first step was a new release process that allowed the QA team to block new
deployments from happening to their Sandbox environment while they performed
their regression testing there, while still allowing developers to merge their
changes and see them deployed in the staging environment. After answering all
the questions that arose from the proposal, many were skeptical that we would
ever do away with full manual regression testing but were also enthusiastic
about removing the merge freeze. We implemented the new release process and are
still using it today, but haven't completely eliminated our manual regression
testing‚Ä¶ yet üôÇ

So, back to our 3 engineering concepts that I am applying - DevOps, Platform
Engineering, and Staff Engineering. How were these helpful in this story?

Staff Engineers are eager to seek out anyone who can help, no matter what team
or role they have at the company. I spoke with practically everyone in the
company to clarify, verify, and lead with intent. I played a "tech lead" role on
this project, driving the project to completion, managing scope, and making
tough decisions along the way. Finally, I leveraged the project to make our
infrastructure and CI/CD process more accessible and easier to understand, both
of which are universal goals of a Staff Engineer. I turned this project, which
was initially what you may think of as a "DevOps" project, into a platform
project, by altering the scope to fully manage our infrastructure using
Terraform. Now, instead of having this Sandbox environment be unique in being
managed by infrastructure as code, our full infrastructure is managed, making it
a clear choice to continue using Terraform for all new infrastructure moving
forward. I did have to walk away from some nice-to-haves, though, but I felt
these were good choices given the lateness of the project and pressing
priorities elsewhere. DevOps principles were core to this project, of course. We
leveraged infrastructure as code to manage our cloud infra consistently. We
simplified and improved our release process once the necessary tooling was in
place to support it. And I introduced the Request For Comment document format to
the org to facilitate inclusive decision making as we were deciding exactly what
our new process should look like.

So, that was my first project at Smartrr. It felt really good to hit the ground
running and have a win so early on. QA got the environment they needed to run
their automation without disruptive mid-suite changes to the application.
Developers no longer needed to artificially delay merging their patches to the
main branch. And the whole organization sped up a bit more due to better tooling
and processes for collaboration. Our QA process has continued to evolve beyond
this project, and I continue to participate in these discussions. We still have
a long-term goal to remove the need for manual regression testing, but more
growth is needed across the organization to feel confident in that step. We'd
also love to implement ephemeral environments that can be spun up as needed, but
there have been challenges that have prevented us from doing so thus far. If
this topic interests you, come find me after this. I'd love to chat about it!

Next, I want to shift gears a bit and show you another side of Modern Staff
Engineering: getting involved in shaping the processes used to organize our
work. Iterating Towards a Productive Engineering Process

Over the course of my year with the company, I have pushed our leadership team
to continuously iterate on the processes and practices the engineering group
uses to organize itself to ship software. I believe there is no
one-size-fits-all approach to building software, so I felt that by experimenting
with different approaches I had seen work well in the past, we could eventually
collect enough signals to lead us to practices that result in productive
collaboration.

When I first joined Smartrr, the product development group all worked from a
single Scrum board and would meet every day and walk through the board,
delivering status updates to the rest of the group. There was a lot happening,
and when looking out over the Google Meet video call, it was clear that a lot of
folks were checking out when it wasn't their turn. Technical debt was added to
the backlog as stories, and Product Management would try to allocate about
15-20% of the total points of the sprint to dealing with these stories. When new
features were being built, the responsibility of seeing them fully shipped fell
on the product manager, because none of the developers felt a sense of
responsibility for this. There was also no clear understanding of the technical
architecture that was being constructed during feature development. In summary,
there were processes in place, but I felt we could do a lot better.

I had worked in environments that felt engaging, empowering, and thoughtful
throughout. I wanted to bring this feeling to my new team, and given my new role
and the Startup environment and culture, I was empowered to bring this kind of
change. Smartrr does not have any formal engineering management in place, so I
collaborate with my amazing colleagues, CTO James Turnbull and Director of
Product Bianca Tompkins, to fill the gap and provide support to the team.
Together, we would discuss ways to improve in all of these areas and more, and I
would draft proposals for any changes we wanted to try out. Each time we
implemented a new idea, we would always frame the change as an "experiment,"
which I have found reduces the friction of change and helps folks understand
that the changes are not a one-way street. We would always make the goal of the
change clear, so folks could decide for themselves if we were hitting the mark
or not. In this way, we would make any sort of process change a group endeavor,
and in our retrospective meetings, we would discuss whether a given change was
having its desired effect or not.

Here are some of the "experiments" we have run, the goal of the change, and the
outcomes we saw:

Short-lived feature teams Goal: Build a sense of direct responsibility for the
full lifecycle of feature development within the engineering team. Change:
Introduce short-lived feature teams, where a lead chooses a small team (
including QA!) to implement a feature to its outlined acceptance criteria.
Outcome: Mixed. We definitely saw an improvement in the team members' ownership,
but not everyone wanted to be a lead or was well suited to be one. Did we keep
it? After trying this for a few months, we decided to move to a new fixed-team
model with specific leads we call "squads."

Epic Kickoff Document Goal: Ensure requirements are clear, and the entire team
is on the same page regarding the scope of a project and the approach that will
be taken. Change: Provide a templated document for teams to populate during a
meeting where they cover all agenda items highlighted in the document and any
additional context they feel is important to share. Outcome: Positive. The
document is only a prompt, a way for people to not feel lost when first
beginning these meetings. The team members felt these meetings were a good value
for the time spent, and they operated better earlier on in the project because
of them. Did we keep it? Yes!

Group Code Review Goals: Reduce code review turnaround time, encourage
discussion of code, share skills Change: Twice a week, there is an open optional
call where developers can join to either review code or have their code reviewed
by the others on the call. A driver shares their screen and walks through a pull
request, and the attendees share their thoughts and make suggestions. Outcome:
This has had a huge positive impact on our engineering group. By reviewing each
other's code in person, they treat each other humanely and respectfully on the
call and in the comments. Comments made in the call result in thoughtful
discussions about techniques and trade-offs, which leads to developers learning
a lot from one another. Pull Requests never sit long because, in each session,
we try to reach Inbox 0. More code reviews are happening now, even outside the
group review sessions. Did we keep it? We have had multiple retrospectives
focused solely on this piece of process, and have, after a year, decided to keep
it in its current state. The developers are excited to have some water cooler
time with one another, get their code reviewed, and have insightful discussions.

We have also experimented with our retrospective process, planning process,
standups, technical debt management, and more. Retrospectives are a great place
to propose such an experiment and check in with the team to see how the change
is fairing.

Let's check in with our modern engineering concepts again, and see how they have
influenced this work.

Adjusting process for teams is usually thought of as the role of an Engineering
Manager or Director, but in their absence, a Staff engineer with an interest in
these sorts of improvements can get involved and help them in this area. Once
the culture of continuous improvement has caught on within the teams, they will
feel empowered by their agile processes instead of burdened and can take on the
challenge of further process improvements themselves. Sometimes teams get stuck
in process ruts that are dragging them down, but they're not aware or are used
to it. Having a trusted Staff engineer shake things up and show a better way can
be just the medicine the team needs to realize their full potential. While much
of the buzz around Platform Engineering tends to revolve around tools, my hot
take is that process is a part of your platform. Process plays a large part in
the speed and effectiveness of your engineering organization, so it should be
thought of as an enabler alongside your tooling. An ineffective process is an
impediment to a team's developer experience, so replacing it can be just as
impactful as improving build times or reducing toil during deployment. Process
is also a lot easier to change than tooling! As for DevOps, well, consider the
acronym CALMS, which is often cited when DevOps is defined: Collaboration,
Automation, Lean, Measurement, and Sharing. The Lean part refers to using Lean
processes to eliminate waste in the value stream. Iterating on your processes
through agile and teaching others how to do so is a core aspect of DevOps!

I strongly encourage you to take a hard look at your processes and decide if you
have room for improvement. It's a low-effort and high-impact change you can make
that will benefit everyone. Have Modern Staff Engineering Skills? Maybe You'd
Enjoy a Startup, Too I'm really enjoying my time working in a startup
environment. At this stage of the company, I feel I'm able to bring my full self
to the problems we are solving and can work across multiple disciplines to help
bring solutions to life. The ever-present time constraints force pragmatism,
which is an important skill to cultivate no matter what industry or environment
you're working in. The embryonic nature of the company gives you the opportunity
to make a huge impact and set the company up for success by applying a modern
approach to software engineering.

Staff Engineers often require both breadth and depth of experience to be
successful in their role - working at a Startup is a great opportunity to
further develop your breadth of knowledge and perhaps try out an area that you
may not have had a chance to dig into before. Primarily worked as a backend
engineer, but interested in developing some React or BigQuery skills? A startup
is a great place for this.

Platform Engineering will look different at different scales of companies. At a
startup, you'll be able to sit down 1:1 with the developers to understand their
pain points, then take on small projects to move the needle in a better
direction. Building strong feedback loops into the development process is a
great way to improve devex and help the developers help themselves in the
future. And you'll want to ensure all your basic SDLC concerns are covered with
industry-standard tools and techniques. Platform Engineering won't be a
full-time job at a startup, but a technique you apply when the need arises.
Remember, "Everyone has a Platform, even if you didn't build it intentionally."

I hope you agree with me that DevOps is very relevant at a startup. Putting in
place the culture, processes, and tools that accelerate value delivery to
customers and make a company a humane place to work is very rewarding for
everyone involved. So if you're a DevOps enthusiast and are considering working
at a startup for the first time, I think you'll find you have a lot to bring to
the table.

Thank you üôè

Many thanks to Chris Hodges, Kyle Kurz, James Turnbull, David Lee, Patrick
Steadman, and Samuel Galarneau for reviewing and providing feedback on the early
drafts of this article.
