---
date: 2026-05-30T10:00:00-05:00
title: How I AI
description: >
  A snapshot of my AI-native engineering practices, describing what's working
  well, where i'm cautious, and my general philosophy towards incorporating AI
  into my workflow.
permalink: how-i-ai/
tags:
  - ai
  - agents
  - developer-experience
  - workflow
---

I've been enjoying Claire Vo's [How I AI][] podcast and have been considering
running an eponymous biweekly get together at work for us to share our tips,
tricks, and challenges. We've got a #vibe-coding Slack channel where we share
our day-to-day thoughts, but this is the first time I've really sat back and
reflected on the whole landscape of how I'm working with AI. I personally don't
think any of this will be surprising, but everyone's on their own journey with
this, so I figure I'll share anyway in hopes it helps!

[How I AI]: https://www.youtube.com/@howiaipodcast

{TODO INSERT THE THESIS HERE}

## Model Selection

I have a few different approaches to model selection that I choose from,
depending on what I'm working on.

For my agentic work-related tasks, I pick the smartest model, but use it at
normal speed (not these "fast" w/ premiums the providers have been offering
lately). I know these smart models are expensive, but it's also expensive to
constantly have to make judgements about which model is appropriate for a task,
and task complexity scales up and down as the task progresses. I think it's too
much overhead to constantly be thinking about model selection at work, so I just
use the best one. Because the best is changing frequently, I refer to the
[Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index][], along with "vibes" to decide
day-to-day.

[Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index]:
  https://artificialanalysis.ai/#intelligence

At home, things are different. I'm cost-sensitive for hobby projects, so I use
them as an opportunity to explore local models. I have a Macbook Pro M4 Max
128gb as my only computer, so now and then I try out new [open models][] that
fit this setup, such as those from Qwen or Google Gemma. I also have an
[OpenRouter][] account, so I try out models from groups like DeepSeek, Z.ai, or
MiniMax periodically to see how they perform in case I need a hosted model for a
project.

[open models]: https://artificialanalysis.ai/models/open-source
[OpenRouter]: https://openrouter.ai

Finally, there's model selection for applications. I haven't written many
LLM-powered applications so far, but for this I think it's important to perform
evaluations across a wide range of models and thinking modes to dial in on
what's going to give the best value. Since my app's likely to be performing a
specific task, it's likely a less-than-frontier model will suffice, potentially
be faster, and save money.

An example of app model selection is a dependency update auto-review GitHub
Actions workflow I built. For this I'm using [Cursor Agent CLI][] and the
[Google Gemini 3.1 Pro][] model, which has been doing fine, and is much cheaper
than others. I've setup some rudimentary evaluations on this GitHub Action, so
that when I change the prompt or the model, it checks to ensure a variety of
synthetic scenarios produce the desired review result. Eventually I want to
explore more robust evaluation options, probably leaning on some of my machine
learning colleagues to help me navigate this landscape and do a good job 🎓.

[Cursor Agent CLI]: https://cursor.com/cli
[Google Gemini 3.1 Pro]: https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/models

The takeaway here is that so far there hasn't been "one model to rule them all"
for me. Maybe one day AI will be commoditized and the "default intelligence"
will suffice for the majority of tasks, but for now, we're having to make trade
offs between cost, speed, and intelligence, among other things. So until that
day comes, keeping tabs on the model landscape and picking the "right tool for
the job" will be important.

## How I'm Using It, and How I'm Not

## Harnessing

## Avoiding Pitfalls

## Embrace the Future
